EIP-5050: Interactive NFTs with Modular Environments (#5050)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-action_standard.md

---

> eip:

Reviewer: 🤔

> eip:

Reviewer 2: Oops, typo on my part, use Sam's feedback instead.

title: Token Interaction Standard
description: A standard action messaging protol for interactions on and between NFTs
author: Alexi (@0xalxi)
discussions-to:
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft
created: 2021-4-18
---

## Simple Summary

A standard messaging protocol for interactive tokens.

## Abstract

This standard defines a broadly applicable action messaging protocol for the transmission of arbitrary, user-initiated actions between tokens. Modular statefulness is achieved with parameterized state contracts that can provide arbitration and settlement of the action process.

## Motivation

> 

Reviewer 3: Might be worth adding a _short_ concrete motivating example that shows some tokens and their actions, and how this is a problem today.

    /// and verifies it and nonce with the `fromContract`.
    /// @param _hash The hash to validate
    /// @param _nonce The nonce to validate
    function isValid(uint256 _hash, uint256 _nonce) external returns (bool);

    /// @notice Retrieve list of actions that can be sent.
    /// @dev Intended for use by off-chain applications to query compatible contracts.
    function sendableActions() external view returns (bytes4[]);

    /// @notice Change or reaffirm the approved address for an action
    /// @dev The zero address indicates there is no approved address.
    ///  Throws unless `msg.sender` is the `_account`, or an authorized
    ///  operator of the `_account`.
    /// @param _account The account of the account-action pair to approve
    /// @param _action The action of the account-action pair to approve
    /// @param _approved The new approved account-action controller
    function approveForAction(
        address _account,
        bytes4 _action,
        address _approved
    ) external returns (bool);

    /// @notice Enable or disable approval for a third party ("operator") to conduct
    ///  all actions on behalf of `msg.sender`

>     /// @dev Emits the ApprovalForAll event. The contract MUST allow
>     ///  multiple operators per owner.

Reviewer 3: Is allowing at most two operators compliant with this specification? If not, I'd recommend:

```suggestion
    /// @dev Emits the ApprovalForAll event. The contract MUST allow
    ///  an unbounded number of operators per owner.
```

- Aggregator services can analyze action events to determine likely state contracts for a given sender/receiver
- Sender/receiver contracts can require a specific state contract
- Sender/receiver contracts can allow any state contract, but set a default. This is important for NFTs that change their render based on state. This default can also be configurable by the token holder.
- State contracts can be bridges to state contracts on another chain, allowing for L1-verification, L2-storage usage pattern (validate action with layer-1 assets, save on l2 where storage is cheaper).

### Extensions

#### Interactive

Some contracts may have custom user interfaces that facilitate interaction.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

interface IERCxxxxInteractive {
    function interfaceURI(bytes4 _action) external view returns (string);
}
```

#### Action Proxies

Action proxies can be used to support backwards compatibility with non-upgradeable contracts, and potentially for cross-chain action bridging.

> They can be implemented using a modified version of [ERC-1820](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1820#erc-1820-registry-smart-contract) that allows [ERC-173](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173) contract owners to call `setManager()`.

Reviewer 3: Please use relative links:

```suggestion
They can be implemented using a modified version of [ERC-1820](./eip-1820.md#erc-1820-registry-smart-contract) that allows [ERC-173](./eip-173.md) contract owners to call `setManager()`.
```

#### Controllable

Users of this standard may want to allow trusted contracts to control the action process to provide security guarantees, and support action bridging. Controllers step through the action chain, calling each contract individually in sequence.

Contracts that support Controllers SHOULD ignore require/revert statements related to action verification, and MUST NOT pass the action to the next contract in the chain.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

interface IControllable {
    function approveController(address sender, string memory action)
        external
        returns (bool);

    function revokeController(address sender, string memory action)
        external
        returns (bool);

    function isApprovedController(address sender, string memory action)
        external
        view
        returns (bool);
}
```

## Rationale

> There are many proposed uses for interactions with and between tokenized assets. Projects that are developing or have already developed such features include fully on-chain games like [Realms' cross-collection Quests](https://docs.bibliothecadao.xyz/lootverse-master-scroll/) and the fighting game [wrasslers](https://wrasslers.com/), and partially on-chain games like [Worldwide Webb](https://webb.game/) and [Axie Infinity](https://axieinfinity.com/). It is critical in each of these cases that users are able to commit actions on and across tokenized assets. Regardless of the nature of these actions, the ecosystem will be stronger if we have a standardized interface that allows for asset-defined action handling, open interaction systems, and cross-functional bridges.

Reviewer 3: Please remove all external links.

> There are many proposed uses for interactions with and between tokenized assets. Projects that are developing or have already developed such features include fully on-chain games like [Realms' cross-collection Quests](https://docs.bibliothecadao.xyz/lootverse-master-scroll/) and the fighting game [wrasslers](https://wrasslers.com/), and partially on-chain games like [Worldwide Webb](https://webb.game/) and [Axie Infinity](https://axieinfinity.com/). It is critical in each of these cases that users are able to commit actions on and across tokenized assets. Regardless of the nature of these actions, the ecosystem will be stronger if we have a standardized interface that allows for asset-defined action handling, open interaction systems, and cross-functional bridges.

Reviewer 3: This section reads more like it belongs in Motivation.

The Rationale section explains the reasoning behind choices made inside this EIP, where the Motivation section explains why the EIP itself needs to exist.

The specifics of state contract interfaces are outside the scope of this standard, and are intended to be purpose-built for unique interactive environments.

### Gas and Complexity (regarding action chaining)

Action handling within each contract can be arbitrarily complex, and there is no way to eliminate the possibility that certain contract interactions will run out of gas. However, developers SHOULD make every effort to minimize gas usage in their action handler methods, and avoid the use of for-loops.

*Alternatives considered: multi-request action chains that push-pull from one contract to the next.*

## Backwards Compatibility

Non-upgradeable, already deployed token contracts will not be compatible with this standard unless a proxy registry extension is used.

## Test Cases

Test cases are include in `../assets/eip-action_standard/`.

## Reference Implementation

> Implementations for both standard contracts and EIP-2535 Diamonds are included in `../assets/eip-action_standard/`.

Reviewer 4: is this ok given it is not a link? I am adding an actual example as well that will be linked.

> Implementations for both standard contracts and EIP-2535 Diamonds are included in `../assets/eip-action_standard/`.

Author: is this ok given it is not a link? I am adding an actual example as well that will be linked.
